Add community meetings recap & scoreboards survey newspost (#7038)
ppy/osu-wiki: news/2022-03-07-community-meetings-recap.md

---
layout: post
title: "Community Meetings Recap & Scoring Survey"

> date: 2022-03-18 14:00:00 +0000

Reviewer: ```suggestion
date: 2022-03-18 16:00:00 +0000
```

---

Check out what's been happening in the new community meetings, and fill out a new survey to let us know your thoughts on how scoreboards should be handled in the future!

![](https://assets.ppy.sh/media/generic-header.png)

> If you're not in the know, we've been hosting [community meetings](/wiki/Community/osu!_community_meetings) since mid-September in 2021. Originally, these meetings were an Q&A-style panel featuring [peppy](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/2), [smoogipoo](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/1040328) and [Ephemeral](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/102335) as they tackled specific topics and open questions from the community at large, mostly regarding the future of the game in things like lazer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you're not in the know, we've been hosting [community meetings](/wiki/Community/osu!_community_meetings) since mid-September in 2021. Originally, these meetings were a Q&A-style panel featuring [peppy](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/2), [smoogipoo](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/1040328) and [Ephemeral](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/102335) as they tackled specific topics and open questions from the community at large, mostly regarding the future of the game with things like lazer.
```

Not familiar with what lazer is? Check out this brief overview:

<iframe width="90%" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/ut_SOreClcc" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

> Recently, the format of these meetings has changed slightly in an effort to be both more concise and targeted (as they tended to drag on and become a bit sprawling in terms of the topics covered), and also to get more people involved in hosting them. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Recently, the format of these meetings has changed slightly in an effort to be both more concise and targeted (as they tended to drag on and become a bit sprawling in terms of the topics covered), and also to get more people involved in hosting them.
```

> [DigitalHypno](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/4384207) has stepped as the first of hopefully many hosts for these new shortform meetings, which [started back in February in response to outcry regarding a temporary change made to the score multipliers in lazer](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=d66pU5lsHvE).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[DigitalHypno](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/4384207) has stepped up as the first of hopefully many hosts for these new short-form meetings, which started back in February in response to outcry regarding a temporary change made to the score multipliers in lazer.
```

> If you missed that meeting, here's a (very) quick rundown of what was talked about:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you missed [that meeting](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=d66pU5lsHvE), here's a (very) quick rundown of what was talked about:
```

- The change made to mod multipliers a few weeks ago and picked up by concerned commentators on social media was a temporary fix to address problems with the lazer-exclusive playlist system.

>   - In lazer, some mods can be adjusted, such as setting the rate at which DoubleTime speeds up the track (in stable, this is a flat 1.5x speed always).
>   - Players could set adjusted DoubleTime at 1.01x speed to gain the flat 1.12x score multiplier, giving them an unfair advantage over those who didn't if freemod was enabled in the playlist/lobby.
>   - Temporarily disabling mod multipliers was intended as a stopgap to fix the above issue while a more robust solution was added.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - In lazer, some mods can be adjusted, such as setting the rate at which Double Time speeds up the track (in stable, this is a flat 1.5x speed always).
  - Players could set Double Time to 1.01x speed, but still gain the flat 1.12x score multiplier, giving them an unfair advantage over those who didn't if FreeMod was enabled in the playlist/lobby.
  - Temporarily disabling mod multipliers was intended as a stopgap to fix the above issue while a more robust solution was being worked on.
```

- **There are no plans to actually remove mod multipliers in the future.**

> - Playlist hosts will have full freedom over mod multipliers to tailor this kind of play to their individual wishes (tournaments, spotlights-type contests, etc). Global leaderboards will use some kind of 'default' setting.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Playlist hosts will have full freedom over mod multipliers to tailor this kind of play to their individual wishes (tournaments, Spotlights-type contests, etc). Global leaderboards will use some kind of "default" setting.
```

- In the future, score multipliers won't be "baked in" on scores but instead exist as seperate components of the score, meaning that mods can be freely rebalanced and scores appropriately recalculated on the fly to match.

> The most recent meeting was hosted yesterday, focused on the topic of leaderboards in the future. Check it out below:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The most recent meeting was hosted two weeks ago, with focus on the future of leaderboards. Check it out below:
```

<iframe width="90%" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/HimCHAnPCCY" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

If you're just interested in a quick summary of what was discussed:

- Improvements to the way scores are saved and stored on the game's end now allow for a lot more flexibility in deciding how to use and show them.
- Scores set now or previously on lazer won't add to global pp, since they aren't properly verified (no anticheat), but most other stats will still apply.

> - Almost all of the 'processors' needed to handle lazer scores are complete, with the exception of play time and medal awarding.

Reviewer: is there some kinda logic to this that i'm not aware of? both types of quotes are used for the same purpose

```suggestion
- Almost all of the "processors" needed to handle lazer scores are complete, with the exception of play time and medal awarding.
```

>   - Play time processing is nearly complete and should be added soon - this means that playing in lazer will increase the total play time visible on your profile.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Play time processing is nearly complete and should be added soon — this means that playing in lazer will increase the total play time visible on your profile.
```

> - The exact way forward with regards to leaderboards and displaying scores is *not yet known or set in stone.*

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The exact way forward with regards to leaderboards and displaying scores is *not yet known or set in stone*.
```

  - peppy wants to poll the community to see how to proceed, as a lot of feedback will be needed on the process and the direction things take.

>   - One of the main topics is whether to split leaderboards between "before lazer" and "after lazer", community will need to decide whether they want this.

Reviewer: em dash can everything

```suggestion
  - One of the main topics is whether to split leaderboards between "before lazer" and "after lazer" — the community will need to decide whether they want this.
```

- One goal is to have all scores set on stable visible in lazer's scoreboards (with Classic mod applied) and potentially vice versa (with caveats) where applicable.

>   - One example of a caveat is the new mods in lazer not being implemented in stable (and won't be)

Reviewer: (microscopic grammar nit)

```suggestion
  - One example of a caveat is the new mods in lazer not being implemented in stable (and they won't be).
```

- Whatever happens, *the aim is not to screw people over with the transition*. Scores set in the past will still count and preserving history is very important.

Following on from the above, we've prepared a survey for the community to help gauge the direction we should be heading towards in regards to how scoreboards and leaderboards are handled. It should take less than five minutes to complete, so please contribute and share the link around:

[**Click here to get started with the survey!**](https://form-auth.ppy.sh/form/2022-the-future-of-osu-leaderboards)

> We'll be announcing the results of this survey in **2 weeks** time, so make sure to get your results in early.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We'll be announcing the results of this survey in **2 weeks'** time, so make sure to get your results in early.
```
